Title: Attention Is All You Need
Authors: Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, Illia Polosukhin
Published: 2017, NeurIPS

Abstract:
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train.

1. Introduction:
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory (LSTM) and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures.

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden states h_t, as a function of the previous hidden state h_{t-1} and the input for position t. This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.

2. Background:
The goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the Extended Neural GPU, ByteNet and ConvS2S, all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. In these models, the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows in the distance between positions, logarithmically for ConvS2S and linearly for ByteNet. This makes it more difficult to learn dependencies between distant positions.

In the Transformer, this is reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due to averaging attention-weighted positions, an effect we counteract with Multi-Head Attention.

3. Model Architecture:
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure. Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations (x1, ..., xn) to a sequence of continuous representations z = (z1, ..., zn). Given z, the decoder then generates an output sequence (y1, ..., ym) of symbols one element at a time.

The Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder.

3.1 Encoder:
The encoder is composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization.

3.2 Decoder:
The decoder is also composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. In addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack.

3.3 Attention:
An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output. The output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the query with the corresponding key.

Scaled Dot-Product Attention: The input consists of queries and keys of dimension dk, and values of dimension dv. We compute the dot products of the query with all keys, divide each by sqrt(dk), and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the values.

Multi-Head Attention: Instead of performing a single attention function with dmodel-dimensional keys, values and queries, we found it beneficial to linearly project the queries, keys and values h times with different, learned linear projections to dk, dk and dv dimensions, respectively.

4. Why Self-Attention:
In this section we compare various aspects of self-attention layers to the recurrent and convolutional layers commonly used for mapping one variable-length sequence of symbol representations (x1,...,xn) to another sequence of equal length (z1,...,zn). We consider three desiderata: the total computational complexity per layer, the amount of computation that can be parallelized (as measured by the minimum number of sequential operations required), and the path length between long-range dependencies in the network.

5. Training:
We trained our models on the standard WMT 2014 English-German dataset consisting of about 4.5 million sentence pairs. Sentences were encoded using byte-pair encoding, which has a shared source-target vocabulary of about 37000 tokens. For English-French, we used the significantly larger WMT 2014 English-French dataset consisting of 36M sentences.

Optimizer: We used the Adam optimizer with beta1=0.9, beta2=0.98 and epsilon=10^-9. We varied the learning rate over the course of training, according to a warmup strategy.

Regularization: We employed three types of regularization during training: Residual Dropout, Label Smoothing.

6. Results:
On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model outperforms the best previously reported models including ensembles by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4.

On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our big model achieves a BLEU score of 41.0, outperforming all of the previously published single models, at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model.

7. Conclusion:
In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention.

For translation tasks, the Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers. We achieved new state of the art on English-to-German and English-to-French translation tasks.

We are excited about the future of attention-based models and plan to apply them to other tasks. We plan to extend the Transformer to problems involving input and output modalities other than text and to investigate local, restricted attention mechanisms to efficiently handle large inputs and outputs such as images, audio and video.

Limitations:
The model requires significant computational resources for training. The quadratic complexity of self-attention with respect to sequence length is a limitation for very long sequences. Future work may address sparse attention patterns.

References:
[1] Bahdanau et al., 2014. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate.
[2] Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997. Long short-term memory.
[3] LeCun et al., 1989. Backpropagation applied to handwritten zip code recognition.
